1.1. Use methods of descriptive statistics to summarize data.
Which Region and which Channel seems to spend more?
Which Region and which Channel seems to spend less?

1.2. There are 6 different varieties of items are considered.
Do all varieties show similar behaviour across Region and Channel?

1.3. On the basis of the descriptive measure of variability, which item shows the most inconsistent behaviour?
Which items shows the least inconsistent behaviour?

1.4. Are there any outliers in the data?

1.5. On the basis of this report, what are the recommendations?


1.1
Other regions are spending significantly more than Lisbon and Oporto put together.
Hotels are spending more than retail going by total sales value across regions. Oporto alone has its retail spending slightly better than the hotel.
Additional insights as below:
Among Lisbon and Opporto, Lisbon spends higher from total sales volume perspective.
Lisbon's hotels have highest spend proportion against its retail channel by doing about 80% more than retail. Other region's hotel channel does around 16% more than its retail channel.

1.2
Other regions shows good number of outliers for every variety.
Almost 4 varieties have their 3 quartiles within 10000 with 2 of them above that but less than 20000 leaving significant gaps with the maximum spend for that variety.
Milk, grocery and detergents_paper have wider gap in spend pattern across channels with retail on the higher side.
Fresh, grocery, frozen and delicatessen show a common trend of higher sales value in hotel channel in conparison to retail channel across all regions.
Grocery spend is considerably lower in hotels across the region compared to the retail.
Delicatessen's spend ratio between channels are pretty close for all the regions. 

There are differences noticed in the spend pattern across items.
Mean of hotel spend is higher than mean of retail spend for items such as fresh and frozen.
Mean of retail spend is higher than the mean of hotel spend for items such as delicatessen, detergents_paper, grocery and milk
 
1.3
Based on the coefficient of variation Fresh shows the most consistent behaviour followed by Grocery
Delicattsen shows the least inconsistent behaviour followed by detergents_paper and frozen.
Note: Going by relationship strength the Detergent paper and Grocery strongest positive co relation.


1.4
In general good number of outliers are present in Other regions across all the items.
Opporto has minimum outliers among the 3 regions.
Retail channel depicts very minimal or no outliers across Lisbon and Opporto. 
