
Null hyposthesis test (H zero) vs alternative hypothesis test (H one): uses sample population mean and std dev
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Also called Z test
Null hypothesis is tested only with equality sign based on z distribution. for academic purposes >= or <= can be assumed.
Determine critical value at 95% of the left or right side of the mean
Based on the targeted reject region against the mean for null it could be left tailed or right tailed test.
mean of null curve is called hypothesised mean. other one is called sample mean.

For large sample we can assume X bar is normally distributed.
Do critical value approach or p value approach as below to finalize on Z hypothesis.

Mu of null curve will be the Mu for the test. Z value for Mu of alternative hypothesis (called computed Z) will be 
compared to the Z critical value(Z value at 95th percentage of null hypothesis curve). 
1.If Z critical value of null curve is lesser than the Conputed Z value then the null hypothesis can be rejected. In
this case computed Z value falls in rejection region against the null hypothesis.

Note: 95th percent point of null is also refered to alpha of 5% to the null curve.Region beyond z critical value in the null 
curve is rejection region. 

Additional p value is the probability of Z value of mu of hypothesis against the null distribution. this value
	determines the significance of the alpha if p is < alpha null hypothesis can be rejected.

2.Additionally if p value is lesser than alpha(5%) then the null hypothesis can be rejected. This refers 
p value computed by norm.s.dist in excel using Z value

So steps involved
1. State H0 and H1... Hypothesis formulation
2. Decide alpha
3. identify the test and compute the test statistics.
4. compute p value
5. Conclude reject or accept null hypothesis.

Limitations of Z test.
1.sample size > 30
2.population std deviation should be known.  why should population to be available why would we do approximation
	with the kind of processing and storage power we have today? why should we even do this test.

so we need population mean to go for z test.

T test, Two sample T test, Paired T test without expected mean given
--------------------------------------------------------------------
In this case we cant find Z value?

step1 : hypothesis formulation (H0 vs H1)... H1 can be one tailed or two tailed.
step2  : record level of significance or alpha 
step3 : compute t statistics (one sample or two sample or differential)
step4 : record degrees of freedom
step5: compute p value using TDIST in excel (Decide accept or reject of null hypothesis based on p value comparison
		with alpha expected)
	in a normal distribution the extreme values are not really outliers. its true if the distribution is skewed

In these tests over and above sample mean and sample std dev we need to know the degrees of freedom to find the
	t statistics. diff with z test is here we use sample std dev instead of population std dev 
	t statistics formulae is different across Z test and T tests. However within T test it has relevant differences
	across them in their formuales.


Computations:
1 sample t test
t = (x bar - mu)/(S / root of n) with degrees of freedom as n-1. 
	x bar is sample mean, mu is hypothesis mean, S is sample std dev, n is sample size
	very similar to z test except for we are using sample std deviation instead of population std deviation.
p value excel function: TDIST(t, df, 2 for two tailed)

2 sample t test
t = (x1 bar - x2 bar)/root of ( (s1 square/n1)+(s2 square/n2) ) with degrees of freedom n1-1+n2-1 = n1+n2-2
variance in excel = var.s()

paired t test
t = d bar/(S of d/root of n) with degrees of freedon as n-1.


Questions:
H0: how does the null hypotheses = <> >= <= impact the t statistics and the p value? how is the hypothesis definition
	controlling the p value? which part of the formula is impacted by this in other words?
2. Computing confidence interval?
where is the alpha determined in the code.
4. should the beta calculation to be restricted to paired t test?
Class
-----
alpha is a risk region or rejection region.
Z score can be computed for categorical values. ex. Chi square test.
mean and sigma are population parameters whereas X bar and S are called sample statistics and not parameters.
Beta: mean of difference between samples is different from difference of mean
reference statsmodel.org to check on parameters of functions used.