What is the difference between non independent rule during simultaneous events and 


In case of discrete random variable, each variable can be differentiated meaningfully wherein which we cannot do the same for 
continous random variable


normal distribution will always be cumulative.

poisson always give expected value of random variable for which probability has to be figured out.

uncertainty+risk(Std dev) = volatility...not being able to foresee will increase risk.
	 we will measure volatily using probability concept enabling business decisions.

Retail market creates lot of association tables to identify customers who purchases a given product also buys another  product (support, confidence, lift ratio). 
	only item gives minimum support they take those transactions. i.e association table, contigency table, conditional probability

Joint probability (specific cell derived in the attribute columns-independent events simultaneous), conditional probability (cell/marginal total), marginal probability (last column marginal sum/100)


i.e
1.In a cross tab/Contigency table, the frequencies assigned to the attributes across rows and columns when converted to probability are called joint probability
2. contingency tables probability of rows and columns are called marginal probability

Probability distribution: listing of all possible values the random variable can take along with its respective probability

probability distribution will be called observed distribution if it is based on empirical data (past data)

binomial distribution: select x successes in n trials with probability across trial having constant probability (pi). expected value (n * pi) is mean

inverting the question to finding the probability is to find the ordinate corressponding to the probability.

Above aspects producing association rules across attributes is called market basket analysis. association with higher probability is target of marketing.

norm.dist  directly get prob values for a given x with given mu and sigma
norm.s.dist Pass Z to get  probability instead of arguments for norm.dist
norm.inv  returns the ordinate for a given prob with given mu and sigma
norm.s.inv returns the z ordinate for a given prob

Questions:
we are using mu as a parameter in normal distribution.. wouldnt the extreme values affect the probability?

step1 : hypothesis formulation (H0 vs H1)... H1 can be one tailed or two tailed.
step2  : record level of significance or alpha 
step3 : compute t statistics (one sample or two sample or differential)
step4 : record degrees of freedom
step5: compute p value using TDIST in excel (Decide accept or reject of null hypothesis based on p value comparison
		with alpha expected)
	in a normal distribution the extreme values are not really outliers. its true if the distribution is skewed

